.\" Manual page for git-forum (ticket wm25ip8y).
.\"
.\" Why this file exists: `git forum --help` is transformed by git
.\" itself into `git help git-forum`, which tries `man git-forum`.
.\" Without this manual page, the user sees `No manual entry for
.\" git-forum` and the in-binary clap help is never reached. This
.\" page satisfies that lookup so `git forum --help` exits 0 with a
.\" usable top-level synopsis.
.\"
.\" Keep in sync with the GROUPED_HELP block in src/main.rs and with
.\" doc/MANUAL.md. The full agent/manual reference lives behind
.\" `git forum --help-llm`.
.TH GIT-FORUM 1 "2026-05-08" "git-forum" "Git Forum Manual"
.SH NAME
git-forum \- structured discussion in Git
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git forum
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ command
.RI [ args... ]]
.PP
.B git-forum
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ command
.RI [ args... ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-forum
stores RFCs, decisions, tasks, and issues as snapshot trees on
.B refs/forum/threads/<id>
inside the same git repository as the code.
Threads carry a single required category
.RB ( rfc " or " task )
plus free-form tags.
Discussion uses four canonical node kinds:
.BR comment ", " approval ", " objection ", and " action .
.PP
This page lists the common top-level subcommands. The full agent /
manual reference is available via
.BR "git forum --help-llm" .
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Setup and repo health
.TP
.B init
Initialize a git-forum repository.
.TP
.B doctor
Diagnose repo health (refs, snapshot integrity).
.TP
.B migrate
Rewrite a 1.x/2.x repo to the 3.0 snapshot-ref format.
.SS Create and browse threads
.TP
.B new
Create a new thread via kind preset
.RB ( rfc / dec / task / issue / bug ).
.TP
.B thread
Canonical lifecycle/tag form (power-user / scripts).
.TP
.B ls
List threads (filter by lifecycle, tag, status, or branch).
.TP
.B show
Show thread details. Use
.B --full
for the complete detail surface and
.B --what-next
for transition diagnostics.
.TP
.B diff
Show diff between body revisions.
.TP
.B shortlog
List threads resolved since a date or tag.
.TP
.B status
Show unresolved items for a thread. Use
.B --full
for full bodies of open objections, actions, and questions.
.SS Structured discussion
.TP
.B node show
Show full body of a node by ID.
.TP
.B node add
Add a typed discussion node
.RB ( comment / approval / objection / action ).
.TP
.B revise
Revise thread body or node body.
.TP
.B retract
Retract a node (soft-delete).
.TP
.B comment ", " objection ", " action
Shorthands for
.BR "node add --type <type>" .
.SS State transitions
.TP
.B state
Generic state transition. See
.BR "git forum state --help" .
.TP
.B accept ", " close ", " propose ", " pend ", " reject ", " withdraw ", " deprecate ", " supersede
Lifecycle-aware shortcuts.
.SS Evidence, links, and policy
.TP
.B evidence add
Attach evidence to a thread.
.TP
.B link
Cross-thread link.
.TP
.B verify ", " policy ", " branch ", " brief
Preflight, policy, branch scope, and read-only digest.
.SS Publishing
.TP
.B thread set-visibility
Toggle a thread between
.B public
and
.BR private .
.TP
.B push
Publish public threads to
.B refs/forum/published/*
on a remote.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --help-llm
Print the full agent/manual reference and exit.
.TP
.B -h ", " --help
Print this manual page.
.TP
.B -V ", " --version
Print version.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B refs/forum/threads/<id>
Per-thread snapshot ref. Each write creates a new commit on this ref.
.TP
.B refs/forum/published/<id>
Per-thread published copy used by
.BR "git forum push" .
.TP
.B .git/forum/policy.toml
Optional policy overrides. See
.BR "git forum policy show" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR "git-forum --help-llm"
for the full manual.
.SH AUTHORS
git-forum is developed in the open at the project repository.
